# Leetcode Intersection of 2 linked list

## solution2

Two pointer solution (O(n+m) running time, O(1) memory):
Maintain two pointers pA and pB initialized at the head of A and B, respectively. Then let them both traverse through the lists, one node at a time.
When pA reaches the end of a list, then redirect it to the head of B (yes, B, that's right.); similarly when pB reaches the end of a list, redirect it the head of A.
If at any point pA meets pB, then pA/pB is the intersection node.
To see why the above trick would work, consider the following two lists: A = {1,3,5,7,9,11} and B = {2,4,9,11}, which are intersected at node '9'. Since B.length (=4) < A.length (=6), pB would reach the end of the merged list first, because pB traverses exactly 2 nodes less than pA does. By redirecting pB to head A, and pA to head B, we now ask pB to travel exactly 2 more nodes than pA would. So in the second iteration, they are guaranteed to reach the intersection node at the same time.
If two lists have intersection, then their last nodes must be the same one. So when pA/pB reaches the end of a list, record the last element of A/B respectively. If the two last elements are not the same one, then the two lists have no intersections.

`satyakam's reply`
Thank you for your question. Let me explain. First of all let me just clarify one thing so that we are not confused. "intersection" is little bit different than "merge". Think of merge as "Y" and intersection as "X". This problem and solution is about merge. And as you asked there may be a situation where there won't be any merge. Let's now talk about how this solution deals with the case where there is no merge. It is super easy to explain with diagram, but will try my best to explain with text. In case there are no merge the last element of each of the list will point to a NULL. Let's say 1st list (L1) has 3 elements and 2nd list (L2) has 5 elements. Now let's do the 1st pass with 2 pointers p1 and p2. When p1 is at the last element of L1, p2 will be at 3rd element of L2. At this point when we move the pointers forward, p1 will be NULL and p2 will be pointing to 4th element of L1. Base on the solutions algorithm we now update p1 to point to the 1st element of L2. So at this point p1 is pointing to 1st element of L2 and p2 is pointing to 4th element of L2. If we move the pointers forward p1 points to 2nd element of L2 and p2 points to 5th element of L2. Now if we move the pointers forward, p1 points to 3rd element of L2 and p2 will points to NULL. Algorithm kicks in again and we update p2 to point to 1st element of L1. So now we had completed reassigning of both the pointers and the claim here is that the pointers are now equidistant from the merge point (or if there's no merge then it is equidistant from the end which is NULL). Let's see if this is true. Ok so now p1 is pointing to the 3rd element of L2 and p2 is pointing to the 1st element of L1. Move them forward, p1 points to 4th element of L2 and p2 points to 2nd element of L1. Move them forward, p1 points to 5th element of L2 and p2 points to 3rd element of L1. Note that both the pointers are at the end of the lists but still not equal. Now if we move the pointers forward both will be NULL. Based on the algorithm now both pointers are equal and hence we return one of them, which is NULL. Does this now explain?